readme.md, before:

# bitburner-scripts

> ⚠️ This is my working repository of Typescript scripts and documentation created while playing the _bitburner_ game.
>
> 🚧 Work in progress. 🏗️

## About

> _Bitburner_ is a free programming-based incremental game that revolves around hacking and cyberpunk themes. The game requires you to write working JavaScript / Typescript code to automate gameplay and solve puzzles. The game can be played at https://bitburner-official.github.io or installed locally through [Steam](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1812820/Bitburner/).

## Source files

I use the bitburner file sync API in the bitburner [typescript-template](https://github.com/bitburner-official/typescript-template) project to automatically 'push' or import my `src` script files into the game in real time.

- [/src](/src)

To get setup I created a docker container to run the file sync nodejs service. I also created a PowerShell script that will launch everything with one click; it will start the docker engine, start the file sync container, open my VS Code bitburner workspace and launch the bitburner game. A SonarQube script will launch a container to run a local static code analysis and publish to a local Sonar instance running on my NAS.

- [DockerGuide.md](DockerGuide.md)
- [Start-Bitburner.ps1](Start-Bitburner.ps1)
- [Start-SonarQube.ps1](Start-SonarQube.ps1)

## Documentation

Documented guides and help pages that I created while playing the _bitburner_ game.

- [/docs](/docs)

Dev Diary of my incremental progress through each iteration or 'soft reset'. Includes my lessons learnt in javascript programming and gameplay strategy learnt while playing the game.

- [/docs/diary](/docs/diary)

I want the diary to help my self-learning and track my progress as I understand more advanced gameplay mechanics and unlock new features in the game; and to track my progress learning javascript programming because I feel I learn and can recall what I have learnt better when I have to clarify, describe and refine my thoughts in writing.

Commit message:

Add devcontainer config (#9)
* Add devcontainer config

* Add devcontainer link to readme

readme.md, after:

# bitburner-scripts

[![Open in Dev Containers](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Dev%20Containers&message=Open&color=blue&logo=visualstudiocode)](https://vscode.dev/redirect?url=vscode://ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers/cloneInVolume?url=https://github.com/mikejonestechno/bitburner-scripts)

> If you already have VS Code and Docker installed, you can click the badge above to get started. Clicking this link will cause VS Code to automatically install the Dev Containers extension if needed, clone the source code into a container volume, and spin up a dev container for use.

⚠️ This is my working repository of Typescript scripts and documentation created while playing the _bitburner_ game.

🚧 Work in progress. 🏗️

## About

> _Bitburner_ is a free programming-based incremental game that revolves around hacking and cyberpunk themes. The game requires you to write working JavaScript / Typescript code to automate gameplay and solve puzzles. The game can be played at https://bitburner-official.github.io or installed locally through [Steam](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1812820/Bitburner/).

## Source files

I use the bitburner file sync API in the bitburner [typescript-template](https://github.com/bitburner-official/typescript-template) project to automatically 'push' or import my `src` script files into the game in real time.

- [/src](/src)

To get setup I created a docker container to run the file sync nodejs service. I also created a PowerShell script that will launch everything with one click; it will start the docker engine, start the file sync container, open my VS Code bitburner workspace and launch the bitburner game. A SonarQube script will launch a container to run a local static code analysis and publish to a local Sonar instance running on my NAS.

- [DockerGuide.md](DockerGuide.md)
- [Start-Bitburner.ps1](Start-Bitburner.ps1)
- [Start-SonarQube.ps1](Start-SonarQube.ps1)

## Documentation

Documented guides and help pages that I created while playing the _bitburner_ game.

- [/docs](/docs)

Dev Diary of my incremental progress through each iteration or 'soft reset'. Includes my lessons learnt in javascript programming and gameplay strategy learnt while playing the game.

- [/docs/diary](/docs/diary)

I want the diary to help my self-learning and track my progress as I understand more advanced gameplay mechanics and unlock new features in the game; and to track my progress learning javascript programming because I feel I learn and can recall what I have learnt better when I have to clarify, describe and refine my thoughts in writing.
