# Log Entry 00: 27 December 2022

I dont remember where or how I discovered the game _bitburner_. I suspect it just came up in my _Steam_ game recommendations one day and I added it to my collection. Perhaps I discovered bitburner when asking _ChatGPT_ about games to learn AI or programming. ChatGPT seems pretty cool too.

In my first play I did not use VScode or capture external documentation so I don't have the scripts or notes I made on my first play.

- [Try](#try)
- [Expect](#expect)
- [Actual](#actual)
- [Learn](#learn)


## Try

I will try playing bitburner for the first time.

## Expect

I expect an entensive tutorial introducing and teaching programming fundamentals such as data types, loops, functions, etc wrapped up with a cyberpunk hacking storyline.

## Actual

Actually _bitburner_ is a **lot** more open and pretty much throws you in at the deep end to learn programming fundamentals on your own! While there _is_ a tutorial it literally scratches the surface of the basic gameplay mechanics with a 16-line script with the in-game _Netscript_ language to get you started.

My first play of bitburner was initially exploratory and unstructured. The game encourages you to read the wikki documentation and Google for basic code samples. _Perhaps this is an intentional part of the game, teaching you how to learn!_

I explored some of the manual UI: went to university (boost hack skill), got a software job (boost money and hack skill) and purchased four _Hacknet_ servers for some passive income while offline.

After a few hours I had over 150 hack experience, several million dollars, and enough faction reputation to purchase my first augmentation. 

Time to **LEVEL UP**!

## Learn

I learnt to use the official documentation and GitHub readme files to understand the basic HGW (hack, grow, weaken) gameplay fundamentals and basic functions (while doing my best to avoid any gameplay spoilers).

I learnt how to write a minimal 2 GB self-contained HGW script with basic loops to continuously hack the _n00dles_ server for $510/s. Rather than use `getSeverMoneyAvailable()`, `getServerSecurityLevel()` and similar functions that increase RAM use, I used a simple estimation based on how much money was stolen for each `hack()` to determine when to perform a `grow()`; and whenever a command failed to run `weaken()` five times.

Keeping the script to 2 GB enabled the script to run two threads on _noodles_ which only has 4 GB RAM available.

I learnt that a few hacking scripts against a couple of servers do earn a **lot** more than the passive income from four level four _Hacknet_ servers.

I also discovered there are external APIs and extensions that enable coding in VScode, and that the in-game editor does not support markdown text files so harder to structure personal notes and documentation using the in-game editor.

I learnt there is a lot more depth to _bitburner_ than a rigid tutorial teaching basic programming fundamentals. It's open gameplay and self-paced learning has me keen to try new things!
