# Log Entry 01: 30 December 2022

- [Try](#try)
- [Expect](#expect)
- [Actual](#actual)
- [Learn](#learn)

## Try

- I will try coding in vscode instead of the in-game editor.
- I will try creating structured documentation of my notes and learnings using markdown text files, and publish them to a personal GitHub repo.
- I will try to anlayze the server stats at the start of the game to optimize a basic script (e.g. running `weaken()` four times in a row on multiple threads was wasteful and time consuming when the server was close or already at low security).
- I will try to focus on automated scripts instead of earning skill and money through work and passive hacknet income because its too easy to level up too quickly.

## Expect

- I expect coding in vscode will allow me to take advantage of additional VScode features, autocomplete, intellisense, and make fewer coding mistakes than using the in-game editor (even though the in-game editor has similar autocomplete intellisense experience).

- I expect creating and structuring my thoughts in markdown will help me learn and track my progress, giving me a sense of acheivement when I can reflect back on where I started from. I expect the structure and format of the documentation will also adapt and improve over time.

- I expect analyzing the servers at the start will help me create a more optimized script because the basic CLI commands dont return the money available on each server or stats about which commands will be most effective against each server.

- I expect avoiding the passive skill and income will force me to learn some of the intermediate functions and APIs that the game makes available, and help me understand some of the mid-game strategy.

## Actual

- I have set up VScode integration, although it wasn't a smooth as I expected. Autocomplete intellisense required some additional manual setup. Haven't yet performed enough bitburner scripting in VScode to establish pros/cons vs the in-game editor, however has been very helpful in documenting markdown and publishing to GitHub.

- I have started to document and structure my thoughts as I learn gameplay and Netscape programming methods. However I dont think the initial structure will be effective long term. I expected I would document technical scripting and programming development under a developer diary and separate gameplay strategy under a different guide or tips section. However the initial gameplay is so open and my programming so limited that gameplay and programming are tightly coupled, it is difficult to clearly separate my thoughts and document separately.

## Learn

- I learnt that I need more time to experience the pros/cons of using VScode vs the in-game editor.

- I learnt that its difficult to document my learnings and progress of gameplay and programming separately as they are tightly coupled and I am learning both at the same time. I may try to keep them together in one blog style post initially and separate later when I expect to focus more on refining and refactoring programming scripts and focus less on learning the early gameplay mechanics. At that point separate developer and gameplay documentation likely more effective than combined documents.

- I learnt that the analyzing servers was much more effective than initial intuition, and more complex analysis will be essential because servers have significant variation, and can produce unexpected results. I expected I would need to grow and hack _n00dles_ at the start because it's the weakest server, but I now believe it would be more effective to just hack _foodnstuff_ at the start.

- I learnt I can rapidly progress the initial opening gameplay without manual UI passive skill and income from attending university and work. I only need 10 successful hacks on _foodnstuff_ to quickly raise $75 k and hacking skill level 5.
