# Log Entry 02: 1 January 2023

- [Try](#try)
- [Expect](#expect)
- [Actual](#actual)
- [Learn](#learn)

## Try

- I will try to get a solid understanding of how the different stats are applied and create a formula to determine the most effective strategy to reach hacking level 5.

## Expect

- I expect to refactor and combine all the server properties into one script that will make it easier to compare and track changes to values after each attack.

## Actual

Official documentation says each grow() will increase money by a certain fixed percentage of the current money determined by the growth rate and the security level. It suggests grow has fixed rate +0.004 security per thread even though there is a Netscape method `growthAnalyzeSecurity()` suggesting it is dynamic.
No minimum hacking level is required to run a grow command.

Repeated tests show the growthAnalze thread count _doesnt change depending on hacking level or security level or on current money available_.

This is unexpected because it suggests 6 threads are required to 2x from 70k to 140k but in practice 1 grow thread results in a 1274% (or 12.74x) increase in money.

This is also unexpected that the grow thread count does not change after a successful grow. `growthAnalyze(n00dles, 2)` is always 6.612947445463879.

_n00dles_ before ($70k available):
```
Available:    $ 0.07 m               Max: $ 1.75 m
Grow factor:  3000
Grow time:    157.64705882352942 seconds
Grow threads: 6.612947445463879 for 2x per core
hackTime:     49.26470588235294 seconds
hackChance:   42.42857142857142 %
hackMoney:    0.41250000000000003 % ($288)
hackThreads:  34.72222222222222 for $10,000
```

_n00dles_ after one grow ($962k available):

```
Available:    $ 0.9622451595811692 m  Max: $ 1.75 m
Grow factor:  3000
Grow time:    157.72549019607845 seconds
Grow threads: 6.612947445463879 for 2x per core
hackTime:     49.28921568627451 seconds
hackChance:   42.385714285714286 %
hackMoney:    0.4120833333333334 % ($3965)
hackThreads:  2.5220680958385877 for $10,000
```

## Learn

 I have learnt to stop trying to make sense of the `growthAnalyze()` method.

 I  Googled for "growthAnalyze" and it's confusing lots of new players expecting simple mathmatical expression like the `hackAnalyzeThreads()` method. It appears that the grow method uses the grow factor along with other values in a logarithmic function. Its not a simple expression.  
 
 The `growthAnalyze()` method generates an approximate estimate but is highly inacurate. There are some advanced functions unlocked later in the game that help the player estimate the growth threads with more accuracy.

 It is a shame this is not in the official documentation which is highly misleading players into thinking that the `growthAnalyze()` method is accurate.
