# Log Entry 03: 2 January 2023

- [Try](#try)
- [Expect](#expect)
- [Actual](#actual)
- [Learn](#learn)

I do not know whether it would be more effective to run one grow script with 8 threads or two grow scripts with 4 threads.

## Try

- I will try to create a startup script to automate level up to hacking level 5.
- I will try to create a worm script to nuke and replicate scripts to servers.

## Expect

- I expect to hardcode some values to the initial startup to minimize RAM use and maximize effectiveness.

- I expect it would be more effective to run multiple parallel scripts with fewer threads because if one hack fails the others may succeed.

## Actual

- I created `start.js` with some hardcoded values to hack _foodnstuff_ and copy files to the server.
- I ran experiments running a script multithreaded and running multiple single-threaded scripts.

## Learn

I learnt that it is more effective running multiple single-threaded scripts than running a script multithreaded because the success chance applies to all threads in a multithread operation, either all threads succeed or all threads fail.

I believe the intermediate mid term strategy is to create some form of message bus where a monitoring controller spawns jobs in a queue and server agents poll for jobs to execute as soon as they have available RAM. I'm not sure whether a low weight agent on each host is feasible or more effective than a central controller.

I believe the long term strategy is to create some form of predictive model to forecast the most effective use of resources ahead of time, and predict the timing and acurate distribution of the jobs to maximize available cpu on each host.
