# Log Entry 04: 3 January 2023

- [Try](#try)
- [Expect](#expect)
- [Actual](#actual)
- [Learn](#learn)

## Objective

My previous `start.js` script ran 9 hack threads on _foodnstuff_ and validated it is more effective to spawn multiple single-threaded scripts than to spawn one multi-threaded script. Having learnt the basic gameplay mechanics for running parallel threads, time to level up.

> Get to hacking level 5 as fast as possible to unlock the _sigma-cosmetics_ server.

Hacking level 5 unlocks the _sigma-cosmetics_ server, which means more RAM available, and is the first milestone before I need to change strategy and stop hardcoding values to optimize RAM, and start dynamic values to scale across new servers.

_sigma-cosmetics_ has very similar money, security and RAM to _foodnstuff_ but has double the (admittedly low) growth rate, so as soon as we reach level 5 we should start to switch target from _foodnstuff_ to _sigma-cosmetics_ for improved growth rate. That would become the next challenge.

## Try

Try scaling out multiple threads on all available servers, using all available RAM to get to level 5 as fast as possible. I know that due to the early 50% hack chance its not guaranteed to successfully reach level 5 within two hack iterations so I may need a condition for additional iterations if needed.

## Expect

This section summarizes what I have already learnt so far, and my expectations for an optimized `start.js` script.

Minimum RAM required for a script containing `hack`, `run` and `exec` methods:

| Methods     | base | hack | run  | exec | Total  |
|-------------|:----:|:----:|:----:|:----:|:------:|
| hack only   | 1.6  | 0.1  |   -  |   -  | 1.7 GB |
| run only    | 1.6  |   -  | 1.0  |   -  | 2.6 GB |
| exec only   | 1.6  |   -  |   -  | 1.3  | 2.9 GB |
| hack & run  | 1.6  | 0.1  | 1.0  |   -  | 2.7 GB |
| hack & exec | 1.6  | 0.1  |   -  | 1.3  | 3.0 GB |

A minimal hack-only script requires 1.7GB RAM. How much RAM is required for multiple threads?

|  Threads | RAM Required | Server Size | Server Name |
|---:|-----:|------------:|-----|
|  1 |  1.7 GB |             |
|  2 |  3.4 GB |        4 GB | _n00dles_ |
|  3 |  5.1 GB |             |
|  4 |  6.8 GB |        8 GB | _home_ |
|  5 |  8.5 GB |             |
|  6 | 10.2 GB |             |
|  7 | 11.9 GB |             |
|  8 | 13.6 GB |             |
|  9 | 15.3 GB |       16 GB | _foodnstuff_ |

Given I start with _home_, _n00dles_ and _foodnstuff_, the theoretical maximum hack-only threads I can run at the start of the game is 15 threads. 

| Server       | RAM   | Threads | Used    | Remain |
|--------------|------:|--------:|--------:|-------:|
| _home_       |  8 GB |       4 | 6.8 GB  | 1.2 GB |
| _n00dles_    |  4 GB |       2 | 3.4 GB  | 0.6 GB |
| _foodnstuff_ | 16 GB |       9 | 15.3 GB | 0.7 GB |
| Total        |       |      15 |

 In theory _home_ could run 4 hack-only threads but will only have 1.2 GB remaining which isnt enough to run an `exec` (1.3 GB) and continue automation, so I'll be stuck hacking _foodnstuff_ forever. I need at least one thread available to `exec` new scripts once I hit level 5, so I expect I can only run 14 hack threads at the start.

## Actual

I learnt how to optimize `start.js` to run the maximum number of hack threads targeting _foodnstuff_.

## Learn

My experience with PowerShell reinforced my love for named parameters or flags instead of relying on a sequence of unnamed arguments in a specific order. Unnamed arguments are prone to errors and uncaught defects that can be difficult to trace or debug.

When I tried to update my scripts to spawn threads on multiple servers I quickly hit an obstacle passing an array of hostnames as an argument between scripts.

`ns.run` and `ns.exec` cant handle array arguments and `ns.flags` cant handle them either, although technically if multiple flags of the same name are used `ns.flags` will combine them into an array, but _dynamically expanding an array into multiple flag arguments is not easy to create_.

``` javascript
 ❌ fails: 
 ns.run("/malware/virus.js", 1, `--targets=['foo','bar']`);

 ✔️ works: 
 ns.run("/malware/virus.js", 1, `--targets=foo`, `--targets=bar`);
```

Instead of passing duplicate named flags, I could convert array to a string argument and then convert back to array in the receiving script. I could use `array.join` and `array.split` to make comma separated string values or use `JSON.stringify` and `JSON.parse` which helps preserve any nested array or data types.

``` javascript
✔️ works: 
const targets = ["n00dles", "foodnstuff"];
ns.run("/malware/virus.js", 1, `--targets=${JSON.stringify(targets)}`);
// requires JSON.parse(args.targets) in the receiving script
```

I then spent a few hours attempting to pass an number of named flags to an `exec.js` script to pass through to another script. This is easy to acheive for passing unnamed arguments but I couldnt find a way to pass named flags through the intermediate script.

It's plausible that its possible but my current knowledge of the interpolation of javascript arguments is limited.

It's also plausible that it is not possible to pass a list of `ns.flags` through the `ns.run` and `ns.exec` arguments due to the way the game is simulating an operating system.

I learnt that its not simple and my effort would be better spent progressing the game - even if that means using unnamed arguments. Urgh.

After successfully creating a `start.js` with maximum threads and a neatly formatted  `analyze-servers.js` with key metrics I started looking at unlocking the other servers and discovered that I can run remote scripts on any server (even servers above my hacking skill level).

While I cannot hack _sigma-cosmetics_ server until I level up to the required hacking skill level 5, I can run the `hack.js` script on _sigma-cosmetics_ targeting _foodnstuff_.  As long as I have root access on a server I can use it to run scripts.

> I learnt my objective was based on incorrect assumptions. I thought that hacking level 5 unlocks the _sigma-cosmetics_ server, which means more RAM available, the first milestone before changing strategy.

Actually all server RAM is available right at the start and I can run remote scripts on any server (that I have root access). It's just that I cannot hack / grow / weaken a server until I meet its minimum security level.

I learnt that I did not actually have a strong understanding of the basic gameplay mechanics and that I need to rethink my start strategy. It may be more effective to run a combination of weaken and grow scripts at the start from all servers that I can get root access.

---

I believe the intermediate mid term strategy is to create some form of message bus where a monitoring controller spawns jobs in a queue and server agents poll for jobs to execute as soon as they have available RAM. I'm not sure whether a low weight agent on each host is feasible or more effective than a central controller.

I believe the long term strategy is to create some form of predictive model to forecast the most effective use of resources ahead of time, and predict the timing and acurate distribution of the jobs to maximize available cpu on each host.