# Log Entry 05: 5 January 2023

- [Try](#try)
- [Expect](#expect)
- [Actual](#actual)
- [Learn](#learn)

## Try

Try to improve understanding of grow, hack, weaken and how to optimize the start of the game.

## Expect

I expect there is value in weakening and growing some servers at the start.

## Actual

Created `worm.js` to nuke and copy files to all servers at the start.

After calculating the weaken and slow grow rates for the low value foodnstuff server I validated that its not worth doing weaken and grow at the start.
By the time the weaken or grow complete I will have enough money and hacking skill to switch to a more profitable server.

# Learn

I learnt how to import functions between scripts.

I learnt that initial strategy is level up as fast as possible and unlock higher rank servers with higher returns.

I expect the hacking levels to require increasing levels of experience and I will reach a point that I am not gaining hack exp fast enough for the next level
i.e. hacking income is declining, security makes it harder to hack, and I am not gaining experience levels.

At that point I need to switch to a SUSTAINABLE 'growth' strategy with weaken and grow methods.

> each successful hack increases security by 0.002.
>
> each successful grow increases security by 0.004.
>
> each successful weaken lowers security by 0.05.

It takes 500 successful hacks to increase security by 1.

It takes 250 successful grows to increase security by 1.

It takes 20 successful weakens to reduce security by 1.
