# Log Entry 06: 7 January 2023

## Objective

If I can level up fast, level up, else sustainable grow/weaken/hack.

### Brainstorming

Select target based on probability $ per second.

> estimated $ per sec = hack chance % * money % * available money / time to hack

What is the hack chance, what is the expected experience / hacking skill?

At hacking level 1 _foodnstuff_ has a 39% chance of success. How much experience can I level up? If I start 9 multithreaded hacks on 5 servers (16 GB) = 45 hacks.

45 hacks * 39% chance of success = 17.55 successful + 27.45 fail

= 17.55 * 6 exp + 27.45 * 1.5 exp = 146.475 exp = level 8.

    Level 2: 17.600 0:00:11
    Level 3: 35.200 0:00:13
    Level 4: 52.800 0:00:15
    Level 5: 72.000 0:00:18
    Level 6: 91.200 0:00:20
    Level 7: 110.400 0:00:23
    Level 8: 131.200 0:00:25
    Level 9: 152.000 0:00:28
    Level 10: 174.400 0:00:31

Each individual thread has a chance to earn hacking experience, each thread on average (6 exp * 39%) + (1.5 exp * 71%) = 3.4 exp.

Hacking level 2 requires approx 17.6 exp / 3.4 exp = 5.1 threads.

If I hack with 5 threads then I'll level up, which means any additional parallel threads 6 to 45 are more likely to succeed and earn money and exp.

At hacking level 2 _foodnstuff_ has a 64% chance of success, the 6th and subsequent thread on average (6 exp * 64%) + (1.5 exp * 36%) = 4.38 exp.

Hacking level 2 requires another 17.6 exp / 4.38 exp = 4.0 threads.

If I hack with 5 + 4 = 9 threads I'll likely hit level 3 with a 73% chance of success.

These calculations ignore security which will gradually increase, but it takes 500 successful hacks to increase security by 1. Its not worth weakening _foodnstuff_, at least not yet.

> These calculations also exclude accelerating hacking experience by taking the university 'Algorithms' class, alough initially going into debt with negative dollars, it will reach hacking level 14 in 42 seconds, well within the 51 seconds for a level 1 hack.

### Logic test

Hacking chance uses hacking level, fractional hacking experience is ignored.

(a) 10 hacks with 50% chance

vs 

(b) 10 x 1 hack with 50% chance 

- Eventually over many iterations, they would be the same.
- Short term (b) provides some incremental benefit if some pass, some fail especially when the chance of fail is medium to high.
- Long term (b) may be less benefit if the chance to succeed is high, better that all threads steal full amount rather than some threads a few milliseconds later steal a fraction of what is left.

## Try

Try adding a sleep loop in `start.js` waiting until university has reached hack level 'x' before kicking off threads?

University algorithms course costs $960/second and gains 8 exp/second.

Using university I can reach hacking level 16 in 49 seconds, within the 51 seconds for a level 1 hack.

Level 50 unlocks the `BruteSSH.exe` programming so I should quit university and start to program so that I can unlock the ervers with SSH port closed.

## Expect

I expect I could use university to earn experience and start hacking a much higher value server on the assumption I will have higher experience and higher success chance, higher income by the time the hack completes. When would I level up using University, and what are my options?

- At level 1 I can hack _foodnstuff_,
hack takes 51 seconds, it I choose to do a hack at the start.

- In 18 seconds at level 5 I unlock _sigma-cosmetics_ for hack, weaken, grow.
hack +57 seconds (total 75 seconds).

- In 31 seconds at level 10 I unlock _joesguns_ for hack, weaken, grow.
hack +73 seconds (total 104 seconds).

- At 51 seconds (just before any _foodnstuff_ hacks complete) I should be at level 16.

- In 107 seconds (just before any _joesguns__ hacks complete) I should be at level 30 and unlock _hong-fang-tea_.

> **Option A**: Speed money (target everything at the highest $/hack)
>
> Immediately start hacking _foodnstuff_ that will finish in 51 seconds at level 16.
>
> 18 seconds (level 5) unlock _sigma-cosmetics_ (but all threads are still hacking _foodnstuff).
>
> 31 seconds (level 10) unlock _joesguns_ (but all threads are still hacking _foodnstuff).
>
> 51 seconds (level 16) hacking _foodnstuff_ finishes with 87% chance of stealing 0.38% of $2.00m ($7.50k/hack). Switch target and start hacking _sigma-cosmetics_ (hacks will take +47 seconds).
>
> 98 seconds (level 28) hacking _sigma-cosmetics_ finishes. Switch target and start hacking _joesguns_
>
> 107 seconds (level 30) unlock _hong-fang-tea_ (but all threads are still hacking _joesguns_) ... 

> **Option B**: Sleep before hack (try to forecast levels and time a higher value server)
>
> Immediately sleep 31 seconds to level 10.
>
> 18 seconds (level 5) unlock _sigma-cosmetics_ (but ignore this).
>
> 31 seconds (level 10) unlock and start hacking _joesguns_ (hacks will take +73 seconds).
>
> 107 seconds (level 30) hacking _joesguns_ finishes with 69% chance of stealing 0.25% of $2.5m ($6.20k/hack). Switch target and start hacking _hong-fang-tea_ (+102 seconds) which was just unlocked.
>
> 209 seconds hacking _hong-fang-tea_ finishes.

> **Option C**: Hack and weaken (and eventually grow if needed)
> 
> Only dedicate one 16 GB server to hacking the latest server, dedicate four others to weaken and grow the next server. 
>
> Immediately start hacking _foodnstuff_ use 9 threads that will finish in 51 seconds at level 16.
>
> 18 seconds (level 5) unlock _sigma-cosmetics_ and use 18 threads to weaken it (+227 seconds).
>
> 31 seconds (level 10) unlock _joesguns_ and use two servers to weaken it (+292 seconds).
>
> 51 seconds (level 16) hacking _foodnstuff_ finishes with 87% chance of stealing 0.38% of $2.00m ($7.50k/hack). Switch target and start hacking _sigma-cosmetics_ (hacks will take +47 seconds).
>
> 98 seconds (level 28) hacking _sigma-cosmetics_ finishes. Switch target and start hacking _joesguns_
>
> 107 seconds (level 30) unlock _hong-fang-tea_ (but all threads are still hacking _joesguns_)
>
> 245 seconds (level 50) weakening _sigma-cosmetics_ finishes...

> **Option D**: Speed Level (target the fastest hack time to boost exp)
>
> University will mean that we level up fast so we dont need to focus on boosting hacking skill, focus on money.

Is it better to start hacking and switching target as they become unlocked, or wait until higher target is unlocked?

I expect from the above forecast that option (A) is still better to start hacking  _foodnstuff_ immediately.

## Actual

During some initial experients I then realized there was ANOTHER server that did not require any ports to be cracked and could also be used to run scripts against target server.

Experiments and analysis cancelled while I refactored scripts to scan and analyze the network for _vulnerable servers_ that could be port cracked and gain root admin rights to run scripts on, even if they have a much higher hacking level required to hack, they can still execute scripts to hack other targets.

I refactored a number of scripts to analyze servers and identify target server with highest hack $ per second.

## Learn

I learnt that after I reach level 50 and unlock `BruteSSH.exe` that it takes couple minutes to manually program, during which time the hacks start to get lower money per second income.

After a few hack iterations it may be faster to earn enough money to purchase the Tor server and buy cracks to unlock higher level servers to hack. And while there is value in doing the manual programming to save the money to purchase more servers for hack and grows, I prefer automation to unlock higher value servers first.

I expect that there are different benefits or marginal efficiency in different ways of ramping up the early game start, and those benefits are not immediately obvious until later gameplay unfolds and more advanced predictive formulas and algorithms are learnt. I also expect that the benefits of different ways of scaling will be different after augmentation upgrades change the multipliers and enable predictive forecasting not feasible at the very start of the game.
