# Log Entry 07: 7 January 2023

## Objective

I discovered that there is sever _nectar_net_ that does not require port cracking that is 2 levels deep.

> Discover the available network.

## Try

- Try making a scan script that gets network information.
- Try to make separate reusable functions for getting the node names and getting info about each node.
- Try to make the output reusable by other scripts without increasing RAM e.g. save JSON output to file.
- Try to make the functions extend the depth by reading known nodes and only scaning unvisited nodes.

## Expect

I expect that all other servers will require port cracking.

## Actual

Discovered the network goes 15 levels deep and all other servers did require port cracking.

## Learn

I learnt javascript `let` and `const` improve variable scope and will replace all use of `var` in future refactoring.

I learnt javascript `set` is a collection, like an array, except each value must be unique.

I learnt javascript `maps` are special key value pair objects with special `.get` `.set` methods and the key could be a boolean or a number instead of objects where keys are always converted to strings.

Maps also enforce the kvp insertion order but I dont know if thats useful for me yet. Maps support `.size()` so could be useful to know or iterate the size of the Map.

The biggest constraint of maps is that they are not directly serializable to JSON and have to be converted to a regular object (so the keys become strings anyway) before invoking JSON.stringify. 

``` javascript
// Convert the map to an array of key-value pairs
const mapArray = Array.from(computerProperties.entries());

// Convert the array to an object
const object = Object.fromEntries(mapArray);

// Convert the object to a JSON string
const jsonString = JSON.stringify(object);

// Write the string to file
```

Similar I learnt javacscript arrays have a `.filter()` method but map objects do not. However can convert object to array and then filter the array.
https://www.delftstack.com/howto/javascript/javascript-filter-multiple-conditions/

``` javascript
const array = Object.Entries(myObject);
array.filter( 
    (node) => node[1].operPortsRequired === 0
)
```

I learnt concepts of depth first traversal and breadth first traversal.

I learnt technique of using pop/push to remove/add to end of array and shift/unshift to remove/add to start of array.
