# Log Entry 08: 16 October 2023

Woah! In January 2023 the release of bitburner v2.2.0 started the introduction of significant changes with a community reboot of bitburner development (the previous main developer hydroflame stepped back from active development). 

Various git repositories were being duplicated and eventually became centralized under a new bitburner-official organization, however I felt there was significant volatility and uncertainty what was 'official' and what changes would and would not be supported moving forward. 

I realized the VS Code extention had already been deprecated and no longer supported.

I found other games to play and suspended my play of bitburner.

## Objective

Six months later I have re-ignited my interest in exploring bitburner again.

> Update to latest version of bitburner and setup VS Code file sync with officially supported remote API so I can start over from beginning.

## Try

Try setting up remote API project in docker containers rather than installing node and dependencies locally.

## Expect

I expect that official supported projects are better documented and easier to setup and maintain.

## Actual

Discovered the deprecated 'bitburner-vscode' extension project is still hosted under the 'bitburner-official' github account (although marked as public readonly archvie).

The 'vscode-template' project that you use with the bitburner VS Code extension is also still hosted under the 'bitburner-official' github account (but is not archived).

The 'typescript-template' project readme says that its the official template for synchronizing typescript and javascript to the game. The 'bitburner-filesync' project description claims that it is the official bitburner filesynchronization package.

After a day of mucking around with these github projects and documentation I eventually managed to get the 'typescript-template' project successfully running in docker and file syncing to bitburner. 

I created a PowerShell script to launch docker, VS Code and bitburner.

I can now experiment writing typescript files for bitburner!

## Learn

I learnt the bitburner doco is still confusing how to get started and what is actually 'officially' supported.

I learnt how to setup a docker container for node and file sync with bitburner. 

Any javascript and typescript files is 'src' are automatically compiled to a 'dist' directory which is then synced to the bitburner game. However there appeared to be issue with the file watching the 'dist' directory and syncing it to the game. Files would automatically get compiled to the 'dist' directory but would not sync to bitburner, they only synced to bitburner when file was first created and services first started. 

I believe this issue is somehow related to the way the API service file watching works with some linux/windows incompatibility with the docker volumne. I overcame this issue by running everything inside the container and only volume mounting the 'src' directory.