docs/diary/readme.md, before:

# Developer Diary

A dev diary of my incremental progress through each iteration or 'soft reset'. Includes my lessons learnt in javascript programming and my gameplay strategy learnt while playing the game.

Click each entry below for link to expanded diary entry.

| Entry | Scripts | Gameplay |
|:-----:|---------|----------|
| [00](00.md) | Created minimal 2 GB HGW script with basic loops to hack n00dles for $510/s.  | Completed tutorial and explored manual UI gameplay: university, work, and faction. Learnt basic fundamental HGW gameplay mechanics. |
| [01](01.md) | Added VScode entension and created this repo in GitHub.  | Manually hacked _foodnstuff_ to rapidly get $75k and hacking level 5. |
| [02](02.md) | Added GHW values to getServerInfo.js.  | Improved my (lack of) understanding of the Netscript GrowthAnalyze() method. |

## Why write a diary?

I want the diary to help my self-learning and track my progress as I learn javascript and how to optimize algorithms, and track my progress as I understand more advanced gameplay mechanics and unlock new features in the game. I feel I can learn and can recall what I have learnt better when I have to clarify, describe and refine my thoughts in writing.

## The TEAL Format

I have been previously inspired by _The Toyota Kata_ by _Mike Rother_ as a structured framework for continuous learning. Go check it out, highly recommended!

It is based on _Edward Deming_'s _PDCA_ (Plan, Do, Check, Act)* scientific method for continuous improvement to inspect and adapt, and "build, measure, learn" has become a popular informal reference.

*also known as PDSA (Plan, Do, Study, Act)

In my personal and professional implementations of Toyota kata I have adapted the PDCA names to better reflect and emphasize the experimentation and innovation culture that I want to adopt at every organization I work. _Planning_ has often become formal, administrative, and unproductive as senior managers with Key Performance Indicators are often incentivized to hit deadlines and outcomes from an annual or quarterly plan rather than the plan itself being a continuously improved and revised document adapting to changing circumstances and new information learnt through implementing the plan.

My TEAL adaption of PDCA makes it easier to remember the scientific method:

- **Try**: What did you try?
- **Expect**: What did you expect?
- **Actual**: What actually happened?
- **Learn**: What did you learn after reflecting on the expected and actual outcome?

Each cycle of TEAL (Try, Expect, Actual, Learn) feeds into the next cycle as the learnings of the previous cycle feeds in to the experiment to try in the next cycle.

That was a rather longer explanation than I expected (ha, see I even catch myself subconciously measuring and validating expectations as I type this) however continuous learning and experimentation is clearly a passion of mine.

## TL/DR;

My developer diary entries will be structured in a TEAL format to help reinforce the culture of experimentation and continuous learning while I play the game. 😀

Commit message:

03 Added start.js to bootstrap initial level up

docs/diary/readme.md, after:

# Developer Diary

A dev diary of my incremental progress through each iteration or 'soft reset'. Includes my lessons learnt in javascript programming and my gameplay strategy learnt while playing the game.

Click each entry below for link to expanded diary entry.

| Entry | Scripts | Gameplay |
|:-----:|---------|----------|
| [00](00.md) | Created minimal 2 GB HGW script with basic loops to hack n00dles for $510/s.  | Completed tutorial and explored manual UI gameplay: university, work, and faction. Learnt basic fundamental HGW gameplay mechanics. |
| [01](01.md) | Added VScode entension and created this repo in GitHub.  | Manually hacked _foodnstuff_ to rapidly get $75k and hacking level 5. |
| [02](02.md) | Added GHW values to `getServerInfo.js`.  | Improved my (lack of) understanding of the Netscript `GrowthAnalyze()` method. |
| [03](03.md) | Added `start.js` to bootstrap initial level up to hacking skill level 5.  | Validated multiple single-threaded scripts are more effective than multi-threaded scripts. |

## Why write a diary?

I want the diary to help my self-learning and track my progress as I learn javascript and how to optimize algorithms, and track my progress as I understand more advanced gameplay mechanics and unlock new features in the game. I feel I can learn and can recall what I have learnt better when I have to clarify, describe and refine my thoughts in writing.

## The TEAL Format

I have been previously inspired by _The Toyota Kata_ by _Mike Rother_ as a structured framework for continuous learning. Go check it out, highly recommended!

It is based on _Edward Deming_'s _PDCA_ (Plan, Do, Check, Act)* scientific method for continuous improvement to inspect and adapt, and "build, measure, learn" has become a popular informal reference.

*also known as PDSA (Plan, Do, Study, Act)

In my personal and professional implementations of Toyota kata I have adapted the PDCA names to better reflect and emphasize the experimentation and innovation culture that I want to adopt at every organization I work. _Planning_ has often become formal, administrative, and unproductive as senior managers with Key Performance Indicators are often incentivized to hit deadlines and outcomes from an annual or quarterly plan rather than the plan itself being a continuously improved and revised document adapting to changing circumstances and new information learnt through implementing the plan.

My TEAL adaption of PDCA makes it easier to remember the scientific method:

- **Try**: What did you try?
- **Expect**: What did you expect?
- **Actual**: What actually happened?
- **Learn**: What did you learn after reflecting on the expected and actual outcome?

Each cycle of TEAL (Try, Expect, Actual, Learn) feeds into the next cycle as the learnings of the previous cycle feeds in to the experiment to try in the next cycle.

That was a rather longer explanation than I expected (ha, see I even catch myself subconciously measuring and validating expectations as I type this) however continuous learning and experimentation is clearly a passion of mine.

## TL/DR;

My developer diary entries will be structured in a TEAL format to help reinforce the culture of experimentation and continuous learning while I play the game. 😀
